[Autogenerated] we want to connect to our database to create and
to query pizzas connecting to an RDS database instance doesn't
actually require the use of the AWS SDK.
Since you choose the flavor of database installed,
you'll actually use a normal method of connecting to that database instance.
A typical solution is to use an object relational
mapping library also called O R M.
This transforms SQL queries and responses into basic function calls and
objects that makes database is much easier to work with.
An added bonus is security.
Since you won't be writing SQL queries and worrying about
injection vulnerabilities for our application,
we will use a popular node O R M library called SQL Eyes which
supports post grass but also my SQL and more.
I've already written most of the code since it doesn't involve interacting
with the AWS SDK so we just need to uncommenting the code,
add the host ID for our RDS instance and then run the code to test it.
The data slash pizzas dot Js file is where all of our pizza operations happen,
such as creating pizza's getting pizza's getting a user's pizzas
and getting recent pizzas for the index page,
You can see around line 15 where we are creating a pizza object and then adding
it to a global pizzas hash This is a simple way of creating a mini pizza
database there are a couple issues with this approach though that our database
implementation will solve first is persistence because this Pizza's variable is
just in memory once our app restarts, all the data will be lost.
Second is scalability as pizzas are added,
memory usage will increase with no constraints.
If the apps saw any rise and registered pizzas the
memory would balloon out of control.
So for these reasons we want to store our pizzas in a database now.
Open the file data slash pizza store.
Js This file uses SQL is to create a Pizzas table and our
database and synchronize the columns.
It also provides some simple functions for us to interact with
the database in code this file is complete except for the host
ID online for so let's update that.
Go to your web console and the RDS instances detail
page that we created and copy that.
endpoint again,
then paste it online for inside the quotes now save this file and it's ready to
go switch back to the data slash pizzas dot Js file in this file we're going to
be uncommenting lines of code and commenting others so that our app will use RDS
through Pizza store instead of the end memory data structure it's using right
now we'll start with line five.
uncommenting the import for pizza store, Then online, 10.
Uncommenting the pizza store initialize function call,
this is what will create the pizzas table in our database Now one
Comment Line 18 to create Pizzas And then comment,
lines 16 and 17 scroll down and uncommenting line 25 4 batch,
Pizza creation and then comment line 24 In the get for user function will need
to comment lines 29-32 And then uncommon lines 33 through 38.
Now in the get recent function comment lines 42 and 43 and then
uncommenting lines 44-48 And then finally in the get function,
comment lines 52 and 53 and uncommon lines 54-59 and that completes the
changes to connect to our database in code Now let's try it out,
go to your command prompt and run NPM start whereas
before you had very simple start output.
Now he'll get a barrage of text.
This is the O R.
M output as it creates the pizzas table and inserts the pizzas.
Now let's take a look at what it did in pg admin,
expand the schemas option under pizza lovers and then
expand public and then expand tables.
You should see a pizzas table here,
right click it and select view data and then all rows.
This will open a query panel which shows you the data in the table,
all the data and you should see all of our initial
pizzas in the database which are hosted.
An RDS just a quick note if you stop the app and started again the
current code will drop the pizzas table and recreate it at the end
of this module we're going to remove the code that does this every time you start your app